Use Cases for MindStrong


Elena, 35F: Elena is a 35 year old female who tries her best to live a healthy lifestyle. She went through a stressful breakup 10 years ago, and coped with it successfully through therapy. Once Elena felt confident to start dating again, she paused her therapy sessions indefinitely. Elena’s life is relatively peaceful now, and she’s in a very fulfilling relationship. However, she notices that some days she’s unmotivated, and other days she takes on too much. Overall, Elena feels like her mental health is in a good place, but she wonders if it could be better. She’s never contemplated harming herself or others, but she would like to understand why her general mood is so fluid. Her goal is to find consistency in her affect and to establish sustainable routines. Elena is excited to try MindStrong, because it will help her see how her current habits impact her mood. Elena is committed to updating her daily logs in the application, because she understands that the quality of her analysis depends heavily on how she chooses to use the application. She’s looking forward to receiving her comprehensive mental health analysis after 21 consecutive days of logging in the application.  

Ahmed, 61M: Ahmed is a 61 year old widower whose wife passed away 7 years ago after a 2 year long battle with cancer. After encouragement from his daughter, Ahmed attended group grief counseling 5 months after the loss of his wife. Ahmed appreciated the group counseling sessions, and he was able to make friends who experienced similar situations. As much as he loved group therapy, Ahmed still struggles with openly telling people that he attended those sessions. Being a 61 year old from Lebanon, Ahmed wasn’t raised in a time and environment that valued mental health. While Ahmed has found peace in the loss of his wife, he reasonably still feels overwhelmingly sad and unmotivated at times. Ahmed’s daughter constantly encourages him to start private weekly therapy. Ahmed has agreed to start private therapy in the next 3 months, but he is very hesitant to go into the first therapy session unprepared. He does not want a stranger assuming that he is “broken”, and he doesn’t fully trust mental health professionals. Ahmed is grateful for MindStrong, because he can privately log his daily habit and see his current mental health analysis every 21 days. As his first therapy session starts in 3 months, Ahmed will have 4 comprehensive analyses ready to go. He can review these and then begin therapy with a specific goal in mind. He knows that with MindStrong he can go into therapy confidently, and direct the sessions in a way that is ideal for him.
